Add FAQ (#228)
tigerbeetle/tigerbeetle: docs/FAQ.md

---
sidebar_position: 6
---

# FAQ

> ## What is double entry accounting?

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## What is double-entry accounting?
```

nit, sorry (here and elsewhere)

Double entry accounting tracks transfers between accounts. It stores
the amount of the transfer along with where the amount came from and

> where it goes.

Reviewer: Maybe "records" instead of "stores", since "store" is overloaded by "storage" (i.e. stores = persists) in the database context (we do persist the amount, but that isn't being discussed in this section).

Author: Done!

## Why does double entry accounting matter?

> Double entry gives you something better than raw data consistency,

Reviewer: "Better" is subjective. Maybe "stronger" instead?

Author: Done!

Because it’s so simple, it’s also highly composable. And so it gives
you tremendous flexibility to model your business, even as product
lines come and go, or as your business evolves. We have often seen
organizations rediscover double entry accounting over time, requiring
painful database migrations as they evolve toward double entry.

Double entry accounting is the language of business, the world
over. It’s the tried and tested schema for representing any kind of
business, any kind of transaction. While you can think of double entry
as the perfect way to describe any kind of financial state transition,
it’s also the perfect way to track and “account” for anything, any
kind of business or real world event, not necessarily financial.

“What advantages does he derive from the system of book-keeping by
double entry? It is among the finest inventions of the human mind;
every prudent master of a house should introduce it into his economy.”
— Goethe, 1795

## Why would I want a dedicated distributed database for accounting?

You can do accounting with any database, it’s true. Existing companies
use PostgreSQL or MongoDB or any other general-purpose

> database. However, this leaves significant work on the user and

Reviewer: ```suggestion
database. However, this leaves significant work for the developer and
```

"User" is accurate from our perspective, but from our user's perspective it refers to someone else.

operator. You must figure out high availability, fault-tolerance, and
consistency. You must figure out how to scale as you add users and
transfers. And of course, you must re-implement all the double-entry
and ledger primitives, which are subtle to get right!

TigerBeetle is focused on just one thing: accounting reliably at
scale. TigerBeetle does double-entry accounting and as a database has

> only two data types: accounts and transfers of money between

Reviewer: ```suggestion
only two data types: accounts, and transfers of money between
```

accounts. TigerBeetle also goes beyond typical ledgers in that it’s
not only great at tracking money within a system, but has a built-in

> two-phase commit coordinator to help you track money as it moves

Reviewer 2: What does two-phase commit mean in this case ?

Reviewer: > a built-in two-phase commit coordinator to help you track money as it moves between systems—even different companies that have entirely different ledger architectures

This is a reference to the [two-phase commit protocol for distributed transactions](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Two-phase_commit_protocol). The TigerBeetle feature being referenced is _two-phase transfers_.

Single-phase transfers post funds to accounts immediately when they are created.

In contrast to single-phase transfers, a two-phase transfer moves funds in stages:

1. First, the _pending transfer_ reserves from funds. While reserved, they cannot be used by either the payer or payee.
2. Later (in a future "commit", i.e. a separate request), the application creates another transfer — either a _post-pending transfer_ or a _void-pending transfer_. The former moves all (or part) of the reserved funds to the destination, the latter reverts them to the original account. The pending transfer's amount is reserved in a way that this second step will never cause the account's configured balance invariants (e.g. `debits < credits`) to be broken.

Author: Great question and thanks DJ! I've added a new section "What is two-phase commit" to the FAQ

between systems—even different companies that have entirely different
ledger architectures! It has built in consensus for high availability,
and recovery mechanisms that surpass most databases today.

Additionally, TigerBeetle was designed precisely for high performance
accounting. We’ve seen teams struggle to reach on the order of 1,000s
of transfers per second when they’ve built on PostgreSQL and
MongoDB. The reason is that the nature of double entry is contention
on either the debit or credit side. For example, a business may have a
few million customers but only a few bank accounts. You can imagine
that processing transactions for these customers will contend for row
locks when touching these bank accounts and deoptimize the ability of
group commit to amortize disk flushes. With these challenges in mind,
we’ve designed TigerBeetle to achieve 1,000,000 transfers per second

> on commodity laptop hardware.

Reviewer: This reads weird to me. It sounds like it is saying we designed it specifically to run fast on laptops.

Author: I didn't write this, but it seems like standard phrasing to me. If we drop laptop though I think it would also be fine.

Reviewer: If it sounds alright to you then its fine as-is.

Author: I dropped "laptop"

With financial data, it’s also important not to lump it together with
general purpose data. The risk profile is different: retention
policies, compliance requirements,and privacy concerns. In auditing
the term is “separation of concerns”. And the performance
characteristics, auditability, and availability requirements are also
dissimilar from general purpose data. In much the same way that you
would store large objects in an object store, or streaming data in a
queue, you really do want separation of concerns for your financial
data and a mission critical database to store it.

## Is TigerBeetle ready for production?

Not yet! TigerBeetle was started in 2020 and you’re watching us build
the plane while we’re flying it. We are working with design partners
and TigerBeetle is being used in corporate “lab” settings. Likewise,

> we encourage you to follow our development and give feedback!

Reviewer: Maybe link the to roadmap?

Also, "follow our development and give feedback" is a good place to include a link to twitter/slack.

Author: Done!

locks when touching these bank accounts and deoptimize the ability of
group commit to amortize disk flushes. With these challenges in mind,
we've designed TigerBeetle to achieve 1,000,000 transfers per second
on commodity hardware.

With financial data, it's also important not to lump it together with
general purpose data. The risk profile is different: retention
policies, compliance requirements,and privacy concerns. In auditing
the term is “separation of concerns”. And the performance
characteristics, auditability, and availability requirements are also
dissimilar from general purpose data. In much the same way that you
would store large objects in an object store, or streaming data in a
queue, you really do want separation of concerns for your financial
data and a mission critical database to store it.

## What is two-phase commit?

This is a reference to the [two-phase commit protocol for distributed
transactions](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Two-phase_commit_protocol).

Single-phase transfers post funds to accounts immediately when they
are created.

In contrast to single-phase transfers, a two-phase transfer moves
funds in stages:

> 1. First, the pending transfer reserves from funds. While reserved,

Reviewer: This was my typo; it should read:
```suggestion
1. First, the pending transfer reserves funds. While reserved,
```

they cannot be used by either the payer or payee.

2. Later (in a future "commit", i.e. a separate request), the
application creates another transfer — either a post-pending transfer
or a void-pending transfer. The former moves all (or part) of the

> reserved funds to the destination, the latter reverts them to the

Reviewer: Another of my typos.
```suggestion
reserved funds to the destination; the latter reverts them to the
```
